Readme revamp (#452)
VirtusLab/git-machete-intellij-plugin: README.md

[![JetBrains Plugins](https://img.shields.io/jetbrains/plugin/v/14221-git-machete.svg)](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14221-git-machete)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/jetbrains/plugin/d/14221-git-machete.svg)](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14221-git-machete)

> <img src="src/main/resources/META-INF/pluginIcon.svg" width="130" height="130" align="left"/>

Reviewer: AWESOME!

Git Machete plugin is a robust tool that simplifies your git related workflow.
It's a great complement to the JetBrains products' built-in version control system.<br/>

The "bird's eye view" provided by Git Machete makes merges/rebases/push/pulls hassle-free
even when multiple branches are present in the repository
(master/develop, your topic branches, teammate's branches checked out for review, etc.).<br/>

A look at a Git Machete tab gives an instant answer to the questions:

> * what branches are in this repository

Reviewer: nit: missing question mark + let's start with the capital letter

> * what is going to be merged (rebased/pushed/pulled) and to what?.

Reviewer: nit: dot after the question mark + let's start with the capital letter

With this plugin, you can simply maintain small, focused pull requests that are easy to review.

**It is compatible with all JetBrains products except Android Studio.
The minimum required version is 2020.1**.

![](docs/sample_workflow.gif)

> See also [git-machete](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete#git-machete) &mdash; a CLI version of this plugin.

Reviewer: I would also move this somewhere. 
Here, under the huge gif, it can be barely seen.

What about adding it within new `## References` section at the end?

Author: Ok, let's try it

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Multi-repository support</strong></summary>
<br/>

Git Machete supports many git repositories in one project, including both regular repositories and submodules.
If more than one repository is detected, the selection list will appear in the top of a main plugin window.
In that case, each repository will have its own `machete` file.

![](docs/multi_repo.gif)
</details>

## Build

Please see the [development documentation](DEVELOPMENT.md) for instruction on how to build this plugin on your own.

## Issue reporting

If you see any bug or just would like to propose any new feature, feel free to create an issue.
When you report a bug please include logs from IntelliJ.<br/>
It can be very helpful for us to enable logging on a debug level and then reproduce a bug.
To do this, go to `Help` -> `Diagnostic Tools` -> `Debug Log Settings` and then paste the following lines:

```
binding
branchlayout
gitcore
gitmachete.backend
gitmachete.frontend.actions
gitmachete.frontend.externalsystem
gitmachete.frontend.graph
gitmachete.frontend.ui
```

Then reproduce the bug and go to `Help` -> `Show Log in Files` to open the log file.

> ## Development

Reviewer 2: Remove this section since we have `Build` now

![](src/main/resources/META-INF/pluginIcon.svg)

Git Machete plugin is a robust tool that simplify your git related workflow.
It's a great completion of IntelliJ version control system.
You can with easy rebase branches, do pull, push or reset.
Just define what you would like your branch tree to look like and leave the rest to Git Machete.
It gives you simple view of what's going on in your repository.
Just look at the edge colors or status descriptions to see what should be rebased, pushed, pulled or reset.

With this plugin you can simply maintain small pull request that are easy to review.

This is a port of [git-machete](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete#git-machete) into an IntelliJ plugin.

This plugin is available on [JetBrains Marketplace](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14221-git-machete).

**It is compatible with all JetBrains products except Android Studio.
Minimum required version is 2020.1**.

![](docs/sample-workflow.gif)

## Installing

> ### Install from JetBrains Marketplace

Author: It seems to be not so easy (even impossible) with markdown  :/

> ### Install from JetBrains Marketplace

Reviewer 2: Yeah, markdown (esp. GH markdown) wrt. more "advanced" formatting... possibly they're doing what they can to mitigate security risks, dunno

> ### Install from JetBrains Marketplace

Reviewer 2: Even `<font color="...">` isn't possible xD

This plugin is available on [JetBrains Marketplace](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14221-git-machete). <br/>
To install this plugin go to `File` -> `Settings` -> `Plugins`, then make sure you are on `Marketplace` tab (not `Installed`), in search box type `Git Machete` and click `Install`.
Plugin will be installed. After installation depending on IDE version restart may be required. In that case just click `Restart IDE` and confirm that action in a messagebox.

## How it works

> Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin is a port of a great console tool - [git-machete](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete#git-machete) - into an IntelliJ plugin.

Author: Placing `git-machete` link in brackets IMHO is bad idea - it suggests that text in brackets is something additional (something without this sentence also have a full sense) but in this case machete reference is rather integral part of a sentence.

> Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin is a port of a great console tool - [git-machete](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete#git-machete) - into an IntelliJ plugin.

Reviewer: Okay then, I got it. The second hyphen (minus sign, dash, or however we call it) looks weird and breaks the integrity you mentioned.

So please remove the second hyphen. Optionally use `,` (comma) instead. 
Eventually:
`Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin is a port of a great console tool - git-machete(,) into an IntelliJ plugin.`

Git Machete can help you manage your repository branches and keep it in sync with each other and its counterparts on a remote repository.
Let's see how this plugin can help you:

### Where to find this plugin window

> Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin is available under `Git` section (in the bottom of the IDE) in the `Git Machete` tab.

Author: IMO `Tool Window` it too technical for average IntelliJ user. I'd name this `tab` (this is probably most clear) and `Git Machete tab` rename to `Git Machete subtab`

> Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin is available under `Git` section (in the bottom of the IDE) in the `Git Machete` tab.

Reviewer: Are we sure that we want to name our tab `Git Machete subtab` in the one place and `(Open) Git Machete Tab` in the other? This may raise doubts. :confused: 

I would rather stay with the `section - tab` naming (instead of `tab - subtab`).
As we have no data (stats, anything) about an average user let's provide the "technical" name `Tool Window" within the parentheses too. WDYT?

> Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin is available under `Git` section (in the bottom of the IDE) in the `Git Machete` tab.

Author: Ok, so finally I'd stay with `tool window` - `tab` naming

You can also use `Ctrl` + `Alt` + `Shift` + `M` shortcut to open it.

![](docs/open_git_machete.gif)

### Machete file editor

> `machete` file describes relation between branches in your repository (these relations are probably determined by order of branch creation - which branch form which - but this is not a rule).

Reviewer 2: `relations between branches` sounds more natural here; the `busses stops case` only refers to the case when there's no preposition AFAIK

It's located inside `.git` directory in your repo.
This is the example of `machete` file:
```
develop
    allow-ownership-link PR #123

>         build-chain PR #124

Author: @PawelLipski ?

>         build-chain PR #124

Author: GIFs regenerated

>         build-chain PR #124

Reviewer 2: Yeah, either of two options:
1. make it completely consistent
1. make it so INconsistent that nobody can think it can refer to the same thing

If edge between them is green that means child branch is in sync with its parent branch - in other words there are no commits in parent branch that don't belong to the child.
But if there are some of that commits, then edge is red - we need to [rebase](#rebase) child branch onto the parent.

Machete file editor will help you to manage `machete` file: it underlines any errors (bad indentation or nonexistent branches) and propose branch names based on local repository branches.
When file editing is done, you can click button in top right corner of file editor to refresh machete branch tree.

![](docs/machete_file_editor.gif)

For more information about `machete` file look at the [reference blog post](https://medium.com/virtuslab/make-your-way-through-the-git-rebase-jungle-with-git-machete-e2ed4dbacd02)

### Checking out branches

With Git Machete you can easily check out branches that have been defined in `machete` file.
Just right-click on the branch you wont to check out and select `Checkout Branch`.
You can also double-click on the selected branch to check it out.
Current branch is underlined in branch tree.

> ![](docs/checkout.gif)

Author: :question: 
All of this files are tracked

> ![](docs/checkout.gif)

Reviewer: The presented graph table shows the repository containing a branch that is `untracked` and has PR annotation.

> ![](docs/checkout.gif)

Author: Ouh, ok, GIFs regenerated

### Listing commits

Git Machete can display commits belonging to the branches.
It displays only these commits that are unique for the selected branch (i.e. were never a tip of a different branch).
When you click on eye button on the left side of plugin, you can toggle between show and hide commits.

> ![](docs/toggle_listing_commits.gif)

Reviewer: untracked with anno

Author: :question:

Author: GIFs regenerated

### Rebase

> Rebase with this plugin is easy!

Reviewer: `this plugin` does not sound good to me :confused: I fell kind of distance from OUR (:heart:) plugin. Why don't we reference `Git Machete` by its name?

> Just right-click on the child branch and from context menu select `(Checkout and) Rebase Branch onto Parent` and a standard IntelliJ dialog for interactive rebase will appear.

Reviewer: Shorter sentences are easier to write and read. What about breaking this one at the point of the second `and`?

Author: TBH this was proposition of @PawelLipski but maybe I misunderstand @PawelLipski?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, can be split into two sentences; my comment was more about word order, nvm

Reviewer 2: > Shorter sentences are easier to write and read.

Pro Writing Tip: alternate b/w short and long sentences, this automatically adds some points to the reader's attention stats

Reviewer 2: Although for short spans of (esp. difficult/technical) text, shorter sentences are easier to read&write indeed.

![](docs/rebase.gif)

### Push

After a rebase, you might want to push rebased branch to remote.
To do this, right-click on the branch you want to push and select `Push (Current) Branch` from context menu.

> Standard IntelliJ push dialog will appear but in case when we rebased selected branch (when branch we want to push diverge from its remote) only force push button will be available.

Reviewer: I ain't true. This is the (un-standard) `Force Push Dialog`

edit
actually (IIRC) we use force push only if it's required XD

Reviewer: \+ as a `force` may cause fear and pain to someone, maybe let's explain it shortly why the `force` is required :thinking:

Reviewer: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19799111/89276089-7c03d400-d643-11ea-9721-88fde2f41086.png)

Author: > I ain't true. This is the (un-standard) `Force Push Dialog`

Technically, yes but from user perspective it looks like standard push dialog (excepting forced action - force push or push)

Author: > actually (IIRC) we use force push only if it's required XD

Yes but basically it's when we rebased given branch. But ok, I will reword this to that way.

Reviewer: > > I ain't true. This is the (un-standard) `Force Push Dialog`
> 
> Technically, yes but from user perspective it looks like standard push dialog (excepting forced action - force push or push)

It is easy to spot this lie. Let's be precise and make the users feel comfortable and safe (esp. in terms of `push --force`).

Author: So, I'd use just `Push dialog` wording (`Custom push dialog`, `Our push dialog` or other like that can sounds weird)

![](docs/push.gif)

> ### Pull

Reviewer: mention that it is `fast forward only`

If branch is behind (or in sync with) its remote, it can be pulled.
To do this, right-click on given branch and select `Pull Branch`.

![](docs/pull.gif)

### Reset to remote

If given branch is not in sync with its remote, we can reset it to point to the exact same commit as the remote.
From right-click context menu select `Checkout and Reset Branch to Remote`.

> This action performs `git reset --keep` under the hood. `--keep`, as opposed to `--hard`, keeps your uncommitted changes safe from getting overwritten.

Reviewer: Do we want to be more specific about the args here? `<remote-name>/<branch-name>` etc?

Author: I think it's unnecessary - we only want to emphasize this `--keep` option

![](docs/reset.gif)

### Fast forward parent

When you are done with the changes on the selected branch (e.g. PR was approved and all required fixes are applied), you probably want to merge this branch to its parent branch.

> When these branches are in sync (green edge) you can do a fast-forward merge.

Reviewer: What about shortly explaining what the ff merge is, here?

This is what `Fast Forward Parent Branch To Match Current Branch` context menu action do.
As you can see, edge between given branch and its parent was changed to grey - it means that the child branch has been merged.

![](docs/fast_forward.gif)

> ### Slide out branch

Reviewer: What about documenting the `machete.slideOut.deleteLocalBranch`?

Author: @PawelLipski, should it be official feature?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, let's make it so

When branch was merged (and sometimes in other cases as well), you probably want to remove this branch from branch tree.
To do this with easy (and without manual editing of `machete` file) you can use `Slide Out Selected Branch` action.
This action will modify branch tree for you - delete the selected branch and reattach its children as children of deleted branch parent.

![](docs/slide_out.gif)

![](docs/slide_out2.gif)

### Slide in branch

You can also create new branch bellow selected one (also without manual editing `machete` file). To do this, choose `Slide In Branch Bellow Selected Branch` action from context menu.
Dialog window will appear.
In text box type new branch name and click `Slide In` button.
Another dialog will appear - it is a standard new branch IntelliJ dialog.

> Here you can choose if you want to check out a newly created branch or not.

Reviewer: This sentence is unnecessary since it describes THEIR features.

- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/open_machete_file.png) **Open Machete File** - open `machete` file in IntelliJ editor (to see what this editor can do see [Machete file editor](#machete-file-editor) section)
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/fetch_all_remotes.png) **Fetch All Remotes** - equivalent of `git fetch --all` command
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/push_current_branch.png) **Push Current Branch** - push branch that is currently checked out (shortcut of [Push](#push) context menu action for the current branch)
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/rebase_current_branch.png) **Rebase Current Branch Onto Parent** - rebase currently checked out branch onto its parent (shortcut of [Rebase](#rebase) context menu action for the current branch)
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/help.png) **Show Help Window** - show window with example branch tree and explanation what parts of this graph mean

### Multi-repository support

Git Machete support many git repositories in one project. It can be many standard repositories or submodules.
If more than one repository will be detected, then selection list will appear in top of main plugin window.
In that case each repository will have its own `machete` file.

> ![](docs/multi_repo.gif)

Reviewer: I think that `Peek` is the only working (on fedora) and the worst screen recorder :c It is impossible to maintain a standard of gifs sizes. This inconsistency makes my eyes bleed :sob: but I know we must leave with it for now

Author: I'm not sure what do you mean. GIFs have exactly that size as recorded area.

Reviewer: Imagine a world where all gifs have the same size (at least within the single page, file)... :lemon: nvm

![](src/main/resources/META-INF/pluginIcon.svg)

> Git Machete plugin is a robust tool that simplify your git related workflow.

Reviewer 2: `simplifies`

> It's a great completion of IntelliJ version control system.

Reviewer 2: `complement`

> You can with ease rebase branches, do pull, push or reset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can with ease rebase, pull, push or reset branches.
```

> Just define what you would like your branch tree to look like and leave the rest to Git Machete.

Reviewer 2: What `branch tree` is supposed to mean is yet unclear to the reader as of this point :/

> It gives you simple view of what's going on in your repository.

Reviewer 2: `a simple`

> Just define what relation between your branches you want to keep and leave the rest to Git Machete.

Author: TBD: information about discover

Just look at the edge colors or status descriptions to see what should be rebased, pushed, pulled or reset.

With this plugin you can simply maintain small pull request that are easy to review.

> This is a port of [git-machete](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete#git-machete) into an IntelliJ plugin.

Reviewer 2: Maybe move to after the sample workflow gif, as `Also see...`

Reviewer 2: Also, only one of this line and line 39 (`Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin is a port of...`) is really needed

> This plugin is available on [JetBrains Marketplace](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14221-git-machete).

Reviewer 2: Remove from here as this sentence is repeated below

**It is compatible with all JetBrains products except Android Studio.
Minimum required version is 2020.1**.

![](docs/sample-workflow.gif)

## Installing

### Install from JetBrains Marketplace

This plugin is available on [JetBrains Marketplace](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14221-git-machete). <br/>
To install this plugin go to `File` -> `Settings` -> `Plugins`, then make sure you are on `Marketplace` tab (not `Installed`), in search box type `Git Machete` and click `Install`.

> Plugin will be installed. After installation depending on IDE version restart may be required. In that case just click `Restart IDE` and confirm that action in a messagebox.

Reviewer 2: Remove `Plugin will be installed.`

## How it works

Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin is a port of a great console tool - [git-machete](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete#git-machete), into an IntelliJ plugin.
Git Machete can help you manage your repository branches and keep it in sync with each other and its counterparts on a remote repository.
Let's see how this plugin can help you:

### Where to find the plugin tab

Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin is available under `Git` (`VCS` in older IntelliJ versions) tool window in the `Git Machete` tab.
You can also use `Ctrl` + `Alt` + `Shift` + `M` shortcut to open it.

![](docs/open_git_machete.gif)

> ### Machete file edition

Author: TBD: mention somewhere in this section about discover functionality

Author: or maybe new section for this functionality would be better

### Machete file edition

`machete` file describes relation between branches in your repository (these relations are probably determined by order of branch creation - which branch form which - but this is not a rule).
It's located inside `.git` directory in your repo.
This is the example of `machete` file:
```
develop
    allow-ownership-link PR #123
        build-chain PR #124
    call-ws
master
    hotfix/add-trigger
```
`develop`, `allow-ownership-link`, `build-chain`, `call-ws`, `master` and `hotfix/add-trigger` are branch names.
Two of them (`allow-ownership-link` and `build-chain`) have custom annotation - it's some kind of short description for given branch and it can be any text that will be displayed next to this branch - in this case they are pull request numbers.

> Relation between these branches is determined by indentations - here single indent is 4 spaces but also tabulation(s) can be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Relation between these branches is determined by indentations - here single indent is 4 spaces but a tab can be used as well.
```

In the example above branches `allow-ownership-link` and `call-ws` are children of `develop` and `build-chain` is a child of `allow-ownership-link`.

> The same for `hotfix/add-trigger` and `master` - former is a child of latter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The same for `hotfix/add-trigger` and `master` - the former is a child of the latter.
```

`develop` and `master` are root branches.

When branch tree is created, Git Machete indicates relation between parent branch and each of its child branches.
If edge between them is green that means child branch is in sync with its parent branch - in other words there are no commits in parent branch that don't belong to the child.

> But if there are some of that commits, then edge is red - we need to [rebase](#rebase) child branch onto the parent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But if there are some commits in the parent branch that are **not** reachable from the child, then edge is red - we need to [rebase](#rebase) child branch onto the parent.
```

> Machete file editor will help you to manage `machete` file: it underlines any errors (bad indentation or nonexistent branches) and propose branch names based on local repository branches.

Reviewer 2: `proposes`

> When file editing is done, you can click button in top right corner of file editor to refresh machete branch tree.

Reviewer 2: Use `branch layout` consistently (ctrl+F across the project for `branch tree` maybe)

![](docs/machete_file_editor.gif)

> For more information about `machete` file look at the [reference blog post](https://medium.com/virtuslab/make-your-way-through-the-git-rebase-jungle-with-git-machete-e2ed4dbacd02)

Reviewer 2: Period at the end

### Checking out branches

With Git Machete you can easily check out branches that have been defined in `machete` file.
Just right-click on the branch you wont to check out and select `Checkout Branch`.
You can also double-click on the selected branch to check it out.
Current branch is underlined in branch tree.

![](docs/checkout.gif)

### Listing commits

Git Machete can display commits belonging to the branches.

> It displays only these commits that are unique for the selected branch (i.e. were never a tip of a different branch).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It displays only the commits that are unique to the selected branch (i.e. were never a tip of a different branch).
```
(https://ell.stackexchange.com/questions/196634/what-is-the-difference-between-unique-to-and-unique-for)

> When you click on eye button on the left side of plugin, you can toggle between show and hide commits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you click on the eye button on the left side of plugin, you can toggle between showing and hiding commits.
```

![](docs/toggle_listing_commits.gif)

### Rebase

Rebase with Git Machete plugin is easy!
Just right-click on the child branch and from context menu select `(Checkout and) Rebase Branch onto Parent` and a standard IntelliJ dialog for interactive rebase will appear.

![](docs/rebase.gif)

### Push

> After a rebase, you might want to push rebased branch to remote.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After a rebase, you might want to push the rebased branch to the remote.
```

> To do this, right-click on the branch you want to push and select `Push (Current) Branch` from context menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Right-click on the given branch and select `Push (Current) Branch` from context menu.
```

Push dialog will appear with proper push button (regular push or force push) depending on which of them is needed.

> Basically, we need force push in case when we rebased our branch, because in this case parent of the first commit that we want to push (that is one of `new base` commits)

Reviewer 2: Just simplify `because....` to sth about the local&remote branch diverging

![](docs/pull.gif)

### Reset to remote

If given branch is not in sync with its remote, we can reset it to point to the exact same commit as the remote.
From right-click context menu select `Checkout and Reset Branch to Remote`.
This action performs `git reset --keep` under the hood. `--keep`, as opposed to `--hard`, keeps your uncommitted changes safe from getting overwritten.

![](docs/reset.gif)

### Fast forward parent

When you are done with the changes on the selected branch (e.g. PR was approved and all required fixes are applied), you probably want to merge this branch to its parent branch.
When these branches are in sync (green edge) you can do a fast-forward merge.
Fast forward merge is nothing else like move tip of branch to which we merge to the same commit as tip of merged branch.
This is what `Fast Forward Parent Branch To Match Current Branch` context menu action do.
As you can see, edge between given branch and its parent was changed to grey - it means that the child branch has been merged.

![](docs/fast_forward.gif)

### Slide out branch

When branch was merged (and sometimes in other cases as well), you probably want to remove this branch from branch tree.

> To do this with easy (and without manual editing of `machete` file) you can use `Slide Out Selected Branch` action.

Reviewer 2: `easily` or `with ease`

- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/toggle_listing_commits.png) **Toggle Listing Commits** - show or hide commits belonging to branches (for more details see section [Listing commits](#listing-commits))
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/open_machete_file.png) **Open Machete File** - open `machete` file in IntelliJ editor (to see what this editor can do see [Machete file editor](#machete-file-editor) section)
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/fetch_all_remotes.png) **Fetch All Remotes** - equivalent of `git fetch --all` command
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/push_current_branch.png) **Push Current Branch** - push branch that is currently checked out (shortcut of [Push](#push) context menu action for the current branch)
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/rebase_current_branch.png) **Rebase Current Branch Onto Parent** - rebase currently checked out branch onto its parent (shortcut of [Rebase](#rebase) context menu action for the current branch)
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/help.png) **Show Help Window** - show window with example branch tree and explanation what parts of this graph mean

### Multi-repository support

> Git Machete support many git repositories in one project. It can be many standard repositories or submodules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Git Machete support many git repositories in one project. It can be many regular repositories or submodules.
```

> If more than one repository will be detected, then selection list will appear in top of main plugin window.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If more than one repository is detected, then selection list will appear in top of main plugin window.
```

In that case each repository will have its own `machete` file.

![](docs/multi_repo.gif)

> ## Build

Reviewer 2: Hmm there's `Build` section and `Building` subsection :frowning_face:

![](src/main/resources/META-INF/pluginIcon.svg)

Git Machete plugin is a robust tool that simplifies your git related workflow.

> It's a great complement of IntelliJ version control system.

Reviewer: `a great complement to the IntelliJ version control system`

Reviewer 2: or better to `JetBrains products' built-in version control system`

> You can with ease rebase, pull, push or reset branches.
> Just use discover action or manually define what relation between your branches you want to keep and leave the rest to Git Machete.
> It gives you a simple view of what's going on in your repository.
> Just look at the edge colors or status descriptions to see what should be rebased, pushed, pulled or reset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The “bird’s eye view” provided by Git Machete makes rebases/push/pulls hassle-free even when multiple branches are present in the repository (master/develop, your topic branches, teammate’s branches checked out for review etc.)
```

> With this plugin you can simply maintain small pull request that are easy to review.

Reviewer: `With this plugin, you can...`
or
`With Git Machete plugin, you can...`

Reviewer 2: also, `small, focused pull requests` (plural)

> With this plugin you can simply maintain small pull request that are easy to review.

Reviewer: `...a maintain small pull requests that...`

Reviewer 2: Hmm I don't think this one is valid, why `a maintain`? :hushed:

Reviewer: whoops, most likely I meant `...maintain a small pull request that...` but it should by plural anyway

**It is compatible with all JetBrains products except Android Studio.

> Minimum required version is 2020.1**.

Reviewer: `The minimum...`

![](docs/sample_workflow.gif)

See also [git-machete](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete#git-machete) - CLI version of this plugin.

## Installing

### Install from JetBrains Marketplace

This plugin is available on [JetBrains Marketplace](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14221-git-machete). <br/>
To install this plugin go to `File` -> `Settings` -> `Plugins`, then make sure you are on `Marketplace` tab (not `Installed`), in search box type `Git Machete` and click `Install`.

> After installation depending on IDE version restart may be required. In that case just click `Restart IDE` and confirm that action in a messagebox.

Reviewer: `In that case, just...`

> After installation depending on IDE version restart may be required. In that case just click `Restart IDE` and confirm that action in a messagebox.

Reviewer: `message box` ?

Git Machete can help you manage your repository branches and keep it in sync with each other and its counterparts on a remote repository.
Let's see how this plugin can help you:

### Where to find the plugin tab

Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin is available under `Git` (`VCS` in older IntelliJ versions) tool window in the `Git Machete` tab.
You can also use `Ctrl` + `Alt` + `Shift` + `M` shortcut to open it.

![](docs/open_git_machete.gif)

### Machete file edition

`machete` file describes relations between branches in your repository (these relations are probably determined by order of branch creation - which branch form which - but this is not a rule).
It's located inside `.git` directory in your repo.

You can define this file manually or use [discover](#discover) action.

This is the example of `machete` file:
```
develop
    allow-ownership-link PR #123
        build-chain PR #124
    call-ws
master
    hotfix/add-trigger
```
`develop`, `allow-ownership-link`, `build-chain`, `call-ws`, `master` and `hotfix/add-trigger` are branch names.

> Two of them (`allow-ownership-link` and `build-chain`) have custom annotation - it's some kind of short description for given branch and it can be any text that will be displayed next to this branch - in this case they are pull request numbers.

Reviewer: `description for a given branch...`

> Two of them (`allow-ownership-link` and `build-chain`) have custom annotation - it's some kind of short description for given branch and it can be any text that will be displayed next to this branch - in this case they are pull request numbers.

Reviewer: `in this case, they...`

It's located inside a `.git` directory in your repo.

This branch layout can be automatically discovered based on your git repository by the `Discover Branch Layout` action.
It detects a layout of around 10 most recently used branches.
This action is proposed in Git Machete tab in case of empty or nonexistent `machete` file,
but you can also run it any time you want from IntelliJ's `Search Everywhere` (double Shift) by typing `Discover Branch Layout`.

![](docs/discover.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary>Edit machete file</summary>

`machete` file can be also edited manually. Let's look at the structure of this file based on the example below:
```
develop
    allow-ownership-link PR #123
        build-chain PR #124
    call-ws
master
    hotfix/add-trigger
```
`develop`, `allow-ownership-link`, `build-chain`, `call-ws`, `master` and `hotfix/add-trigger` are branch names.
Two of them (`allow-ownership-link` and `build-chain`) have custom annotation - it's some kind of short description for a given branch and it can be any text that will be displayed next to this branch - in this case, they are pull request numbers.

> The relation between these branches is determined by indentations - here single indent is 4 spaces, but a tab can be used as well.

Reviewer 2: Nit: pls use ` &mdash; ` instead of mid-sentence ` - `

![](src/main/resources/META-INF/pluginIcon.svg)

Git Machete plugin is a robust tool that simplifies your git related workflow.
It's a great complement to the JetBrains products' built-in version control system.
The "bird's eye view" provided by Git Machete makes merges/rebases/push/pulls hassle-free
even when multiple branches are present in the repository
(master/develop, your topic branches, teammate's branches checked out for review, etc.).
A look at a Git Machete tab gives an instant answer to the question
"what branches are in this repository, what is going to be merged (rebased/pushed/pulled) and to what?".

With this plugin, you can simply maintain small, focused pull requests that are easy to review.

**It is compatible with all JetBrains products except Android Studio.
The minimum required version is 2020.1**.

![](docs/sample_workflow.gif)

See also [git-machete](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete#git-machete) &mdash; CLI version of this plugin.

## Installing

### Install from JetBrains Marketplace

This plugin is available on [JetBrains Marketplace](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14221-git-machete). <br/>

> To install this plugin go to `File` -> `Settings` -> `Plugins`, then make sure you are on `Marketplace` tab (not `Installed`), in search box type `Git Machete` and click `Install`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install this plugin go to `File` -> `Settings` -> `Plugins` in your IDE,
then make sure you are on `Marketplace` tab (not `Installed`), in search box type `Git Machete` and click `Install`.
```

With this plugin, you can simply maintain small, focused pull requests that are easy to review.

**It is compatible with all JetBrains products except Android Studio.
The minimum required version is 2020.1**.

![](docs/sample_workflow.gif)

See also [git-machete](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete#git-machete) &mdash; a CLI version of this plugin.

## Installing

### Install from JetBrains Marketplace

This plugin is available on [JetBrains Marketplace](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14221-git-machete). <br/>
To install this plugin go to `File` -> `Settings` -> `Plugins` in your IDE,
then make sure you are on `Marketplace` tab (not `Installed`), in search box type `Git Machete` and click `Install`.
After installation depending on IDE version restart may be required.
In that case, just click `Restart IDE` and confirm that action in a message box.

## How it works

Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin is a port of a great console tool &mdash; [git-machete](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete#git-machete), into an IntelliJ plugin.
Git Machete can help you manage your repository branches and keep it in sync with each other and its counterparts on a remote repository.

> Let's see how this plugin can help you:

Reviewer 2: Maybe remove this sentence coz the narrative doesn't continue into the `how this plugin can help you` things afterwards

<details>
<summary><strong>Where to find the plugin tab</strong></summary>
<br/>

> Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin is available under `Git` (`VCS` in older IntelliJ versions) tool window in the `Git Machete` tab.

Reviewer 2: Hmm `older IntelliJ versions`... but I guess this is about pre-2020.1 versions which we don't support anyway, right?

Author: Yes, you are right

You can also use `Ctrl` + `Alt` + `Shift` + `M` shortcut to open it.

![](docs/open_git_machete.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Discover</strong></summary>
<br/>

> `machete` file describes relations between branches in your repository
> (these relations are probably determined by the order of branch creation &mdash;
> which branch has been created from which &mdash; but this is not a strict rule).
> It's located inside the `.git` directory in your repo.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`machete` file describes relations between branches in your repository.
These relations are probably determined by the order of branch creation &mdash;
which branch has been created from which &mdash; but this is not a strict rule. <br/>
It'll be located under `.git/machete` path in your repo.
```

Author: Why future simple here?

Reviewer 2: Hmm I thought that it might be confusing for the reader coz before they run Discover, the file is not yet there :/

This branch layout can be automatically discovered based on the state of your git repository by `Discover Branch Layout` action.
It constructs a layout from around 10 most recently used branches.

> This action is proposed in Git Machete tab in case of empty or nonexistent `machete` file,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This action is proposed in Git Machete tab in case of an empty or nonexistent `machete` file,
```

but you can also run it any time from IntelliJ's `Search Everywhere` (double Shift) by typing `Discover Branch Layout`.

![](docs/discover.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Edit machete file</strong></summary>
<br/>

`machete` file can be also edited manually. Let's look at the structure of this file based on the example below:
```
develop
    allow-ownership-link PR #123
        build-chain PR #124
    call-ws
master
    hotfix/add-trigger
```
`develop`, `allow-ownership-link`, `build-chain`, `call-ws`, `master` and `hotfix/add-trigger` are branch names.
Two of them, `allow-ownership-link` and `build-chain`, have a custom annotation &mdash;
it's an arbitrary description displayed next to the given branch (in this case, pull request numbers).

The relation between these branches is determined by indentations &mdash; here single indent is 4 spaces, but a tab can be used as well.

> In the example above branches `allow-ownership-link` and `call-ws` are children of `develop` and `build-chain` is a child of `allow-ownership-link`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the example above, branches `allow-ownership-link` and `call-ws` are children of `develop`, while `build-chain` is a child of `allow-ownership-link`.
```

> The same for `hotfix/add-trigger` and `master` &mdash; the former is a child of the latter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`master`, in turn, is the parent of `hotfix/add-trigger`.
```

`develop` and `master` are root branches.

When branch layout is created, Git Machete indicates a relation between parent branch and each of its child branches.
If the edge between them is green that means child branch is in sync with its parent branch &mdash; in other words, there are no commits in parent branch that don't belong to the child.
But if there are some commits in the parent branch that are **not** reachable from the child, then the edge is red &mdash; you need to rebase child branch onto the parent.

> Machete file editor will help you to manage `machete` file: it underlines any errors (bad indentation or nonexistent branches) and proposes branch names based on local repository branches.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Machete file editor will help you with managing `machete` file: it underlines any errors (bad indentation or nonexistent branches) and proposes branch names based on local repository branches.
```

When file editing is done, you can click the button in the top right corner of the file editor to refresh the machete branch layout.

![](docs/machete_file_editor.gif)

> For more information about a `machete` file look at the [reference blog post](https://medium.com/virtuslab/make-your-way-through-the-git-rebase-jungle-with-git-machete-e2ed4dbacd02).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about `machete` file, look at the [reference blog post](https://medium.com/virtuslab/make-your-way-through-the-git-rebase-jungle-with-git-machete-e2ed4dbacd02).
```

The current branch is underlined in a branch layout.

![](docs/checkout.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Toggle listing commits</strong></summary>
<br/>

Git Machete can display commits belonging to the branches.
It displays only the commits that are unique to the selected branch (i.e. have never been a tip of a different branch).
When you click on the eye button on the left side of the plugin, you can toggle between showing and hiding commits.

![](docs/toggle_listing_commits.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Rebase</strong></summary>
<br/>

Rebase with Git Machete plugin is easy!
Just right-click on the child branch and from a context menu select `(Checkout and) Rebase Branch onto Parent`.
Standard IntelliJ dialog for interactive rebase will appear.

![](docs/rebase.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Push</strong></summary>
<br/>

After a rebase, you might want to push the rebased branch to the remote.
Right-click on the given branch and select `Push (Current) Branch` from a context menu.
Push dialog will appear with a proper push button (regular push or force push) depending on which of them is needed.

> Basically, you need force push in a case when you rebased your branch and thus local and remote branch diverged from each other (they have different commits), so git won't let you do a regular push.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Basically, you need a force push in a case when you rebased your branch and thus local and remote branch diverged from each other (they have different commits), so git won't let you do a regular push.
```

![](docs/push.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Pull</strong></summary>
<br/>

If a branch is behind (or in sync with) its remote, it can be pulled.

> To do this, right-click on a given branch and select `Pull Branch`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do this, right-click on a given branch and select `Pull Branch`.<br/>
```

> This action does `--ff-only` pull only which is enough in this case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This action always performs a `--ff-only` (fast-forward only) pull which makes handling diverged remote branches less error-prone.
```

![](docs/pull.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Reset to remote</strong></summary>
<br/>

If a given branch is not in sync with its remote, you can reset it to point to the exact same commit as the remote.

> From a right-click context menu select `Checkout and Reset Branch to Remote`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From a right-click context menu select `Checkout and Reset Branch to Remote`.<br/>
```

This action performs `git reset --keep` under the hood. `--keep`, as opposed to `--hard`, keeps your uncommitted changes safe from getting overwritten.

![](docs/reset.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Fast forward parent</strong></summary>
<br/>

> When you are done with the changes on the selected branch (e.g. PR was approved and all required fixes are applied), you probably want to merge this branch to its parent branch.
> When these branches are in sync (green edge) you can do a fast forward merge.
> Fast forward merge is just equivalent to moving tip of a branch to which you merge to the same commit as a tip of a merged branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you are done with the changes on the selected branch (e.g. PR has been approved and all required fixes are applied),
you probably want to merge this branch to its parent branch.
When these branches are in sync (green edge), you can do a fast forward merge.
Fast forward merge is just equivalent to moving tip of a branch to which you merge (`develop` in the sample below)
to the same commit as a tip of a merged branch (`call-ws` below).
```

This is what `Fast Forward Parent Branch To Match Current Branch` context menu action does.

> As you can see, the edge between a given branch and its parent was changed to grey &mdash; it means that the child branch has been merged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you can see, the edge between `develop` and `call-ws` changed to grey &mdash; it means that `call-ws` has been merged.
```

![](docs/fast_forward.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Slide out branch</strong></summary>
<br/>

When a branch was merged (and sometimes in other cases as well), you probably want to remove this branch from branch layout.

> To do this with ease (and without manual editing of `machete` file) you can use `Slide Out Selected Branch` action.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do this with ease (and without editing `machete` file manually), you can use `Slide Out Selected Branch` action.
```

This action will modify the branch layout, removing the entry for the selected branch `X` and reattaching `X`'s children as new children of `X`'s parent.

> If `machete.slideOut.deleteLocalBranch` git configuration key is set to `true`, then this action will also delete `X` branch from the underlying git repository (and not just from `.git/machete` file).

Reviewer 2: New paragraph from this line

The easiest way to set this key is using `git config --add machete.slideOut.deleteLocalBranch true` command inside a given repository.
If you want to set this key globally (to be used for all repositories that don't have this key set explicitly), add `--global` option to the previous command.

![](docs/slide_out_leaf_node.gif)

![](docs/slide_out_non_leaf_node.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Slide in branch</strong></summary>
<br/>

You can also create a new branch below the selected one (also without editing `machete` file manually).
To do this, choose the `Slide In Branch Below Selected Branch` action from a context menu.
Type the name of new branch in the dialog window and click `Slide In` button.
Another dialog will appear &mdash; it is a standard new branch IntelliJ dialog.

![](docs/slide_in_new_branch.gif)

A slide in action can also add a branch that already exists in git repository to the branch layout.
Again, select the `Slide In Branch Bellow Selected Branch` from a context menu and type the name of an already existing branch.

![](docs/slide_in_existent_branch.gif)

This action can also be used to reattach an existing branch below a selected one.

> In this case, you just must type a name of the existing branch that you want to reattach and then click `Slide In`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this case, just type the name of the existing branch that you want to reattach and then click `Slide In`.
```

You can also select the `Reattach children` checkbox to move along all children of the reattached branch.

![](docs/slide_in_reattach_without_children.gif)

![](docs/slide_in_reattach_with_children.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Override fork point</strong></summary>
<br/>

According to [git documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-merge-base#Documentation/git-merge-base.txt---fork-point),

> fork point is `the point at which a branch (or any history that leads to <commit>) forked from another branch (or any reference) <ref>`.

Author: Not sure if this one sentence is enough but probably with sentences below it is.

Reviewer 2: Okay! just remember that we define fork point slightly differently than the `git merge-base`:

If one of branch layout edges is yellow, that means the fork point of this branch cannot be unambiguously determined.
However, Git Machete can give you a hint which commit is probably the fork point.
Show commits to see the suggested fork point (see the `Toggle listing commits` section).

Now you can use `Override Fork Point of Branch` action to choose the fork point of this branch.
It can be commit inferred by Git Machete (the one marked in commits list), or the one that parent branch is pointing to.

![](docs/override_forkpoint.gif)

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Other actions</strong></summary>
<br/>

On the left side bar you can find other actions (from top to bottom):
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/refresh.png) **Refresh Status** &mdash; refresh the graph displayed in main plugin window
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/toggle_listing_commits.png) **Toggle Listing Commits** &mdash; show or hide commits belonging to branches (for more details see `Toggle listing commits` section)
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/open_machete_file.png) **Open Machete File** &mdash; open `machete` file in IntelliJ editor (to see what this editor can do see `Edit machete file` section)

> - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/fetch_all_remotes.png) **Fetch All Remotes** &mdash; equivalent of `git fetch --all` command

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/fetch_all_remotes.png) **Fetch All Remotes** &mdash; equivalent to `git fetch --all` command
```

> - The most suitable action (each is equivalent of context menu actions) for a current branch that can be one of:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The most suitable actions (each is equivalent to one of the context menu actions) for a current branch that include one or more of:
```

    - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/reset.png) **Reset Current Branch to Remote**
    - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/slide_out.png) **Slide Out Current Branch**
    - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/rebase.png) **Rebase Current Branch Onto Parent**
    - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/override_forkpoint.png) **Override Fork Point of Current Branch**

  Available action is selected based on a relation between a current branch and its parent and remote branch.
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/slide_in.png) **Slide In Branch Below Current Branch** &mdash; shortcut of `slide in` action for current branch
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/help.png) **Show Help Window** &mdash; show window with a sample branch layout and explanation what parts of this graph mean
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Multi-repository support</strong></summary>
<br/>

Git Machete supports many git repositories in one project, including both regular repositories and submodules.
If more than one repository is detected, the selection list will appear in the top of a main plugin window.
In that case, each repository will have its own `machete` file.

![](docs/multi_repo.gif)
</details>

## Build

<details>

> <summary><strong>Prerequisites</strong></summary>

Reviewer: Are we sure that we want to maintain the same content within 2 different files? This is redundant and easily leads to inconsistency.

Author: Ok, so I removed the content of this section and added a reference to DEVELOPMENT.md

![](src/main/resources/META-INF/pluginIcon.svg)

Git Machete plugin is a robust tool that simplifies your git related workflow.
It's a great complement to the JetBrains products' built-in version control system.
The "bird's eye view" provided by Git Machete makes merges/rebases/push/pulls hassle-free
even when multiple branches are present in the repository
(master/develop, your topic branches, teammate's branches checked out for review, etc.).
A look at a Git Machete tab gives an instant answer to the question

> "what are the branches in this repository, what is going to be merged (rebased/pushed/pulled) and to what?".

Reviewer 2: (yeah, I'm fixing myself here, sorry :trollface:)
```suggestion
"what branches are in this repository, what is going to be merged (rebased/pushed/pulled) and to what?".
```

Reviewer 2: Generally, technical texts are *n o t o r i o u s* for multiple rounds of review, esp. as compared to code review. There're almost no automated checks (no compiler, no tests etc.) that could be applied to the text, as opposed to the code - so basically the human reviewers take over the role of the compiler :robot:

Reviewer 2: See e.g. this one https://github.com/PawelLipski/docker-ci-blog/commits/master... 12 rounds with just one of the reviewers :exploding_head:

This plugin is available on [JetBrains Marketplace](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14221-git-machete).

> **It is compatible with all JetBrains products except Android Studio.**

Reviewer 2: \+ mention the minimal version for completeness

![](docs/demo-workflow.gif)

## How it works

> Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin is a port of a great console tool - [git-machete](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete#git-machete) - into an IntelliJ plugin.

Reviewer 2: Ok, similar comments as in https://github.com/mkondratek/git-machete-blog-post/pull/1/files#r463683311 (prompted by @pdolega's feedback - we need to give an average non-advanced git user a clear view as to what kind of benefit they will have from modifying their git-related habits)

Git Machete can help you manage your repository branches and keep it in sync with each other and its counterparts on remote repository.
Let's see how this plugin can help you:

### Where to find this plugin window

Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin is available under `Git` section (in the bottom of the IDE) in the `Git Machete` tab.
You can also use `Ctrl` + `Alt` + `Shift` + `M` shortcut to open this plugin.

![](docs/open_git_machete.gif)

### Machete file editor

> If you are familiar with console equivalent of this tool ([git-machete](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete#git-machete)) then for sure you know what is the `machete` file.

Reviewer 2: Hmm TBH I wouldn't bring this up - if someone used the CLI before, they surely know without that sentence as well; and for newcomers this might works slightly against us - giving the impression that some extra prior knowledge is preferred/desired

> For those who don't know this yet, `machete` file is located inside `.git` directory in your repo.

Reviewer 2: Same, this implicitly divides the users into `those who know` and `those who don't know` certain piece of information :)

It describes relation between branches in your repository (these relations are probably determined by order of branch creation - which branch form which - but this is not a rule).

> For more information look at the [reference blog post](https://medium.com/virtuslab/make-your-way-through-the-git-rebase-jungle-with-git-machete-e2ed4dbacd02). <br/>

Reviewer 2: This of course should be linked, but again, in the spirit of keeping low cognitive load for the newcomers - move it closer to the end

Machete file editor will help you to manage `machete` file: it underlines any errors (bad indentation or nonexistent branches) and propose branch names based on local repository branches.
When file editing is done, you can click button in top right corner of file editor to refresh machete branch tree.

![](docs/machete_file_editor.gif)

### Checking out branches

With Git Machete you can easily check out branches that have been defined in `machete` file.
Just right click on the branch you wont to check out and select `Checkout Branch`.
You can also double-click on the selected branch to check it out.
Current branch is underlined in branch tree.

![](docs/checkout.gif)

### Listing commits

Git Machete can display commits belonging to the branches.

> It displays only these commits that are unique for the selected branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It displays only these commits that are unique for the selected branch (i.e. were never a part of a different branch).
```
Imprecise as hell... but at least intuitive, I hope ;)

When you click on eye button on the left side of plugin, you can toggle between show and hide commits.

![](docs/toggle_listing_commits.gif)

### Rebase

> When branch tree is created, Git Machete indicates relation between parent branch and each of its child branches.

Reviewer 2: This piece about edge colors should probably go earlier in the narrative

Reviewer 2: Since colored edges already occurred a couple times so far without explanation

> If edge between them is green that mean child branch is in-sync with its parent branch - in other words there are no commits in parent branch that doesn't belong to the child.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If edge between them is green that means child branch is in sync with its parent branch - in other words there are no commits in parent branch that don't belong to the child.
```
Btw that's a pretty good & intuitive wording - I always had a problem how to convey `in sync` more clearly

But if there are some of that commits, then edge is red - we need to rebase child branch onto the parent.
With this plugin it's easy!
Just right click on the child branch and from context menu select `(Checkout and) Rebase Branch onto Parent`.

> Standard IntelliJ rebase dialog will appear, and we can easily rebase child branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and a standard IntelliJ dialog for interactive rebase will appear.
```

![](docs/rebase.gif)

### Push

> After rebase it's good practice to push rebased branch to remote.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After a rebase, you might want to push the rebased branch to the remote.
```

> To do this right click on the branch you want to push and select `Push (Current) Branch` from context menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do this, right-click on the branch you want to push and select `Push (Current) Branch` from context menu.
```

> Standard IntelliJ push dialog will appear but in case when we rebased selected branch (when branch we want to push diverge from its remote) only force push button will be available (in other cases only standard push).

Reviewer 2: Skip ` (in other cases only standard push)`

![](docs/push.gif)

### Pull

If branch is behind (or in sync with) its remote, it can be pulled.
To do this, right click on given branch and select `Pull Branch`.

![](docs/pull.gif)

### Reset to remote

> If given branch is not in sync with its remote, we can reset it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If given branch is not in sync with its remote, we can reset it to point to the exact same commit as the remote.
```

From right click context menu select `Checkout and Reset Branch to Remote`.

> Now branch point to the same commit as its remote.
> To be more precise, this action perform reset with `--keep` option - it means that your unstaged changes are safe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This action performs `git reset --keep` under the hood. `--keep`, as opposed to `--hard`, keeps your uncommitted changes safe from getting overwritten.
```

![](docs/reset.gif)

### Fast forward parent

> When you are done changes on the selected branch (e.g. PR was approved and all needed changes are applied) you probably wont to merge this branch to its parent branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you are done with the changes on the selected branch (e.g. PR was approved and all required fixes are applied), you probably want to merge this branch to its parent branch.
```

When these branches are in sync (green edge) you can do a fast-forward merge.
This is what `Fast Forward Parent Branch To Match Current Branch` context menu action do.

> As you can see, edge between given branch and its parent was changed to grey - it means that branch was merged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you can see, edge between given branch and its parent was changed to grey - it means that the child branch has been merged.
```

![](docs/fast_forward.gif)

### Slide out branch

> When branch was merged (but not only then) you probably want to remove this branch from branch tree.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When branch was merged (and sometimes in other cases as well), you probably want to remove this branch from branch tree.
```

To do this with easy (and without manual editing of `machete` file) you can use `Slide Out Selected Branch` action.
This action will modify branch tree for you - delete the selected branch and reattach its children as children of deleted branch parent.

![](docs/slide_out.gif)

![](docs/slide_out2.gif)

### Slide in branch

You can also create new branch bellow selected one (also without manual editing `machete` file). To do this, choose `Slide In Branch Bellow Selected Branch` action from context menu.
Dialog window will appear.

> In text box type new branch name and click `SLide In` button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In text box type new branch name and click `Slide In` button.
```

Another dialog will appear - it is a standard new branch IntelliJ dialog.
Here you can choose if you want to check out a newly created branch or not.

![](docs/slide_in1.gif)

> This action can also be used to reattach existing branch bellow selected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This action can also be used to reattach an existing branch below a selected one.
```

In this case you just must type name of existing branch that you want to reattach and then click `Slide In`.

> You can also select `Reattach children` checkbox to move all children of reattached branch with it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also select `Reattach children` checkbox to move along all children of the reattached branch.
```

![](docs/slide_in2.gif)

![](docs/slide_in3.gif)

### Other actions

> On the left side bar you can find another actions (from top to bottom):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the left side bar you can find other actions (from top to bottom):
```
Roughly: `other` = `inny`, `another` = `kolejny`

- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/refresh.png) **Refresh Status** - refreshing (reload) branch tree (the graph displayed in main plugin window)
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/toggle_listing_commits.png) **Toggle Listing Commits** - show or hide commits belonging to branches (for more details see section [Listing commits](#listing-commits))
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/open_machete_file.png) **Open Machete File** - open `machete` file in IntelliJ editor (to see what this editor can do see [Machete file editor](#machete-file-editor) section)
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/fetch_all_remotes.png) **Fetch All Remotes** - equivalent of `git fetch --all` command

> - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/push_current_branch.png) **Push Current Branch** - push branch that is currently checked out (shortcut of [Push](#push) context menu action for the current branch)

Reviewer 2: To be updated with #427

- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/rebase_current_branch.png) **Rebase Current Branch Onto Parent** - rebase currently checked out branch onto its parent (shortcut of [Rebase](#rebase) context menu action for the current branch)
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/help.png) **Show Help Window** - show window with example branch tree and explanation what parts of this graph mean

### Multi-repository support

> Git Machete support many git repositories in one project. It can be many standard repositories or subrepositories.

Reviewer 2: Hmm it's not clear what you mean by `subrepository` here... does it refer to submodule?

Author: oh, yeah, I mean submodule

If more than one repository will be detected, then selection list will appear in top of main plugin window.
In that case each repository will have its own `machete` file.

![](docs/multi_repo.gif)

> ## Installing

Reviewer 2: TBH I'd put install before the detailed manual, esp. given that it's pretty short

### Install from JetBrains Marketplace

This plugin is available on [JetBrains Marketplace](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14221-git-machete). <br/>
To install this plugin go to `File` -> `Settings` -> `Plugins`, then make sure you are on `Marketplace` tab (not `Installed`), in search box type `Git Machete` and click `Install`.

> Plugin will be installed. After installation click `Restart IDE` and confirm that action in a messagebox.

Reviewer 2: Nit: as for now it applies to 2020.1 but AFAIK not 2020.2 since for some reason the plugin can be updated in 2020.2 without IDE restart (although this is subject to change as the SDK features used in our plugin.xml change); so pls mention that the *restart might be needed depending on IDE version* or sth like that

> ### Install plugin zip

Reviewer 2: This is very unlikely to be useful for non-developers (how many plugins in one's IDE are installed NOT from Marketplace?), I'd make it DEVELOPMENT.md-only

This plugin is available on [JetBrains Marketplace](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14221-git-machete).

> **It is compatible with all JetBrains products except Android Studio**

Reviewer 2: Period `.` at the end

even when multiple branches are present in the repository
(master/develop, your topic branches, teammate's branches checked out for review, etc.).
A look at a Git Machete tab gives an instant answer to the question

> "what branches are in this repository, what is ![](docs/left_bar_actions/toggle_listing_commits.png) **Toggle Lisgoing to be merged (rebased/pushed/pulled) and to what?".

Reviewer 2: Whoops

> ![](docs/demo-workflow.gif)

Author: Not sure if new gif is good enough  :/
WDYT?

Reviewer 2: I'd remove the moment where you FF `allow...` to match `build-chain`, this is complicates the situation since the yellow edge/fork point suggestion shows up etc.

Reviewer 2: Also, the fact that `build-chain` has `PR #...` annotation despite being untracked... is kinda awkward ;) https://github.com/mkondratek/git-machete-blog-post/pull/1/files#r463688877

Reviewer 2: Pls wait with regenerating this gif until right before merging this PR since some last-minute changes might happen

![](docs/demo-workflow.gif)

> ## How does it work

Reviewer 2: Generally there's inversion in questions (_How does it work_?) and no inversion in relative clauses (_I just asked how it works._). This caption is neither... but my general feeling would be that no inversion should be applied (_How it works_); see e.g. https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCELt4nocnWDEnYJmov4zqyA

Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin is a port of a great console tool - [git-machete](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete#git-machete) - into an IntelliJ plugin.

> Git Machete can help you manage yours repository branches and keep it in sync with each other and its counterparts on remote repository.

Reviewer 2: `s/yours/your` since the object aka _dopełnienie_ is present

Let's see how this plugin can help you:

### Where to find this plugin

Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin is available under `Git` section (in the bottom of the IDE) in the `Git Machete` tab.
You can also use `Ctrl` + `Alt` + `Shift` + `M` shortcut to open this plugin.

![](docs/open_git_machete.gif)

### Machete file editor

If you are familiar with console equivalent of this tool ([git-machete](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete#git-machete)) then for sure you know what is the `machete` file.
For those who don't know this yet, `machete` file is located inside `.git` directory in your repo.
It describes relation between branches in your repository (these relations are probably determined by order of branch creation - which branch form which - but this is not a rule).

> For more information look [here](https://medium.com/virtuslab/make-your-way-through-the-git-rebase-jungle-with-git-machete-e2ed4dbacd02). <br/>

Reviewer 2: `here`/`click here`-still links are discouraged by W3C: https://www.w3.org/QA/Tips/noClickHere; I agree with their points, esp. about the `explains what the link offers` part

Reviewer 2: So maybe the `look at the [reference blog post](...)`

Author: Good to know about this W3C recommendation

> ![](docs/machete_file_editor.gif)

Reviewer 2: Nice :partying_face: 

General remark to all three: to provide more focus on what's actually happening, I'd crop the mostly empty space on the right

> ### Rebase - the heart of Git-Machete

Reviewer 2: Don't use the hyphenated form, use `Git Machete` consistently instead, as per https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete-intellij-plugin/issues/104

Reviewer 2: Also I'm reluctant to present rebase as the _heart_ of this software... I agree that as for now the plugin isn't of much use if someone doesn't want to use rebase, but still, it's better not to intimidate potential users who are prejudiced against rebase (and there's quite a few of them) :/

Reviewer 2: git-machete CLI allows for using merge instead of rebase in pretty much all contexts (with the exception with `git machete reapply` where the former doesn't make much sense); we don't provide `merge parent into this branch` feature as for now, but it's relatively easy to add if/when requested (as happened with the CLI)

> When branch tree is created, Git-Machete indicate relation between parent branch and each of its child branches.

Reviewer 2: Remove hyphen + `indicates`

![](docs/sample_workflow.gif)

> See also [git-machete](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete#git-machete) &mdash; CLI version of this plugin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See also [git-machete](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete#git-machete) &mdash; a CLI version of this plugin.
```

Git Machete can help you manage your repository branches and keep it in sync with each other and its counterparts on a remote repository.
Let's see how this plugin can help you:

<details>

> <summary>Where to find the plugin tab</summary>

Reviewer 2: Pls wrap the summary text into `<b>...</b>` everywhere + `<br/>` after `</summary>`

Reviewer 2: So that the summaries feel more header-like

Author: or maybe even `<strong></strong>`

Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin is available under `Git` (`VCS` in older IntelliJ versions) tool window in the `Git Machete` tab.
You can also use `Ctrl` + `Alt` + `Shift` + `M` shortcut to open it.

![](docs/open_git_machete.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary>Discover</summary>

`machete` file describes relations between branches in your repository (these relations are probably determined by order of branch creation - which branch form which - but this is not a rule).

> It's located inside a `.git` directory in your repo.

Reviewer 2: `s/a/the` :thinking:

> This branch layout can be automatically discovered based on your git repository by the `Discover Branch Layout` action.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This branch layout can be automatically discovered based on the state of your git repository by `Discover Branch Layout` action.
```

> It detects a layout of around 10 most recently used branches.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It construct a layout from around 10 most recently used branches.
```

Git Machete can help you manage your repository branches and keep it in sync with each other and its counterparts on a remote repository.
Let's see how this plugin can help you:

<details>
<summary>Where to find the plugin tab</summary>

Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin is available under `Git` (`VCS` in older IntelliJ versions) tool window in the `Git Machete` tab.
You can also use `Ctrl` + `Alt` + `Shift` + `M` shortcut to open it.

![](docs/open_git_machete.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary>Discover</summary>

> `machete` file describes relations between branches in your repository (these relations are probably determined by order of branch creation - which branch form which - but this is not a rule).

Reviewer 2: `from which`

> ### Machete file edition

Reviewer 2: `Edition` isn't really used in the sense of `the action of editing`/`edycja`, it's more of `nakład, wydanie` as in `second edition of the book, revised`; maybe just `Edit machete file`

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Discover</strong></summary>
<br/>

> `machete` file describes relations between branches in your repository (these relations are probably determined by order of branch creation &mdash; which branch from which &mdash; but this is not a rule).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`machete` file describes relations between branches in your repository
(these relations are probably determined by the order of branch creation &mdash; 
which branch has been created from which &mdash; but this is not a strict rule).
```

It's located inside the `.git` directory in your repo.

This branch layout can be automatically discovered based on the state of your git repository by `Discover Branch Layout` action.
It constructs a layout from around 10 most recently used branches.
This action is proposed in Git Machete tab in case of empty or nonexistent `machete` file,

> but you can also run it any time you want from IntelliJ's `Search Everywhere` (double Shift) by typing `Discover Branch Layout`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
but you can also run it any time from IntelliJ's `Search Everywhere` (double Shift) by typing `Discover Branch Layout`.
```

For running `./gradlew` from command line, make sure that `java` and `javac` are in `PATH` and point to Java 11.

> ### Building

Reviewer 2: Hmm this part is (I guess intentionally) repeated in DEVELOPMENT.md... TBH I don't think we need details like that in README, it just unnecessarily bloats our "front page" and can have somewhat intimidating effect (at least I don't think it's gonna be helpful); just a link to a full-fledged development guide should be enough in README

Reviewer 2: Yeah, and definitely this should not be before the `Installing` section :scream_cat:

Author: About `Building` section, as it's an opensorce project I think that basic information about how to build it should be visible directly in `README.md` because it's natural that someone want to build that plugin on they own. Because of that I also think that moving all build instructions into `DEVELOPMENT.md` only is not a good move - IMO it's less intuitive (but maybe it's only my opinion).

Reviewer 2: Ok, I agree with this reasoning. If it comes to `In case of spurious cache-related...` paragraph, pls either remove it completely or update to match the one in DEVELOPMENT.md

    hotfix/add-trigger
```
`develop`, `allow-ownership-link`, `build-chain`, `call-ws`, `master` and `hotfix/add-trigger` are branch names.

> Two of them (`allow-ownership-link` and `build-chain`) have custom annotation - it's some kind of short description for a given branch and it can be any text that will be displayed next to this branch - in this case, they are pull request numbers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two of them, `allow-ownership-link` and `build-chain`, have a custom annotation -
it's an arbitrary description displayed next to the given branch (in this case, pull request numbers).
```

The relation between these branches is determined by indentations - here single indent is 4 spaces, but a tab can be used as well.
In the example above branches `allow-ownership-link` and `call-ws` are children of `develop` and `build-chain` is a child of `allow-ownership-link`.
The same for `hotfix/add-trigger` and `master` - the former is a child of the latter.
`develop` and `master` are root branches.

When branch layout is created, Git Machete indicates a relation between parent branch and each of its child branches.
If the edge between them is green that means child branch is in sync with its parent branch - in other words, there are no commits in parent branch that don't belong to the child.

> But if there are some commits in the parent branch that are **not** reachable from the child, then the edge is red - we need to [rebase](#rebase) child branch onto the parent.

Reviewer 2: Pls use either `we` or `you` consistently; I'd rather stick to `you`

Machete file editor will help you to manage `machete` file: it underlines any errors (bad indentation or nonexistent branches) and proposes branch names based on local repository branches.
When file editing is done, you can click the button in the top right corner of the file editor to refresh the machete branch layout.

![](docs/machete_file_editor.gif)

For more information about a `machete` file look at the [reference blog post](https://medium.com/virtuslab/make-your-way-through-the-git-rebase-jungle-with-git-machete-e2ed4dbacd02).
</details>

<details>
<summary>Check out branches</summary>

With Git Machete you can easily check out branches that have been defined in `machete` file.

> Just right-click on the branch you wont to check out and select `Checkout Branch`.

Reviewer 2: `want`

This action performs `git reset --keep` under the hood. `--keep`, as opposed to `--hard`, keeps your uncommitted changes safe from getting overwritten.

![](docs/reset.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary>Fast forward parent</summary>

When you are done with the changes on the selected branch (e.g. PR was approved and all required fixes are applied), you probably want to merge this branch to its parent branch.
When these branches are in sync (green edge) you can do a fast-forward merge.
Fast forward merge is nothing else like move tip of a branch to which we merge to the same commit as a tip of a merged branch.
This is what `Fast Forward Parent Branch To Match Current Branch` context menu action does.
As you can see, the edge between a given branch and its parent was changed to grey - it means that the child branch has been merged.

![](docs/fast_forward.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary>Slide out branch</summary>

When a branch was merged (and sometimes in other cases as well), you probably want to remove this branch from branch layout.
To do this with ease (and without manual editing of `machete` file) you can use `Slide Out Selected Branch` action.

> This action will modify a branch layout for you - delete the selected branch and reattach its children as children of deleted branch parent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This action will modify the branch layout, removing the entry for the selected branch `X` and reattaching `X`'s children as new children of `X`'s parent.
```

> When the `machete.slideOut.deleteLocalBranch` git configuration key is set to `true`, then this action delete also sided out a branch from your git repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If `machete.slideOut.deleteLocalBranch` git configuration key is set to `true`, then this action will also delete `X` branch from the underlying git repository (and not just from `.git/machete` file).
```

The easiest way to set this key is using `git config --add machete.slideOut.deleteLocalBranch true` command inside a given repository.
If you want to set this key globally (to be used for all repositories that don't have this key set explicitly), add `--global` option to the previous command.

![](docs/slide_out_leaf_node.gif)

![](docs/slide_out_non_leaf_node.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary>Slide in branch</summary>

> You can also create a new branch bellow selected one (also without manual editing `machete` file).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also create a new branch below selected one (also without editing `machete` file manually).
```

> To do this, choose the `Slide In Branch Bellow Selected Branch` action from a context menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do this, choose the `Slide In Branch Below Selected Branch` action from a context menu.
```

The dialog window will appear.

> In text box type new branch name and click `Slide In` button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Type the name of new branch in the dialog window and click `Slide In` button.
```

Another dialog will appear - it is a standard new branch IntelliJ dialog.

![](docs/slide_in_new_branch.gif)

A slide in action can also add a branch that already exists in git repository to the branch layout.

> Again, select the `Slide In Branch Bellow Selected Branch` from a context menu and type already existent branch name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Again, select the `Slide In Branch Bellow Selected Branch` from a context menu and type the name of an already existing branch.
```

    hotfix/add-trigger
```

> `develop`, `allow-ownership-link`, `build-chain`, `call-ws`, `master` and `hotfix/add-trigger` are branch names.

Reviewer 2: Split this paragraph into 2-3 pieces, it's a bit hard to read right now

You can also double-click on the selected branch to check it out.
The current branch is underlined in a branch layout.

![](docs/checkout.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary>Listing commits</summary>

Git Machete can display commits belonging to the branches.
It displays only the commits that are unique to the selected branch (i.e. have never been a tip of a different branch).
When you click on the eye button on the left side of the plugin, you can toggle between showing and hiding commits.

![](docs/toggle_listing_commits.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary>Rebase</summary>

Rebase with Git Machete plugin is easy!
Just right-click on the child branch and from a context menu select `(Checkout and) Rebase Branch onto Parent`.
Standard IntelliJ dialog for interactive rebase will appear.

![](docs/rebase.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary>Push</summary>

After a rebase, you might want to push the rebased branch to the remote.
Right-click on the given branch and select `Push (Current) Branch` from a context menu.
Push dialog will appear with a proper push button (regular push or force push) depending on which of them is needed.

> Basically, we need force push in a case when we rebased our branch because local and remote branch diverged from each other (they have different commits), so git won't let us do regular push.

Reviewer 2: `a regular push`

![](docs/push.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary>Pull</summary>

If a branch is behind (or in sync with) its remote, it can be pulled.
To do this, right-click on a given branch and select `Pull Branch`.
This action does `--ff-only` pull only which is enough in this case.

![](docs/pull.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary>Reset to remote</summary>

If a given branch is not in sync with its remote, we can reset it to point to the exact same commit as the remote.
From a right-click context menu select `Checkout and Reset Branch to Remote`.
This action performs `git reset --keep` under the hood. `--keep`, as opposed to `--hard`, keeps your uncommitted changes safe from getting overwritten.

![](docs/reset.gif)
</details>

<details>
<summary>Fast forward parent</summary>

When you are done with the changes on the selected branch (e.g. PR was approved and all required fixes are applied), you probably want to merge this branch to its parent branch.
When these branches are in sync (green edge) you can do a fast-forward merge.

> Fast forward merge is nothing else like move tip of a branch to which we merge to the same commit as a tip of a merged branch.

Reviewer 2: Nit: use `fast-forward` (preferred) or `fast forward` consistently

Reviewer 2: `s/nothing else like move/just equivalent to moving`

Author: In plugin's user-facing messages it's `Fast forward` so I'd stuck with that.

    hotfix/add-trigger
```
`develop`, `allow-ownership-link`, `build-chain`, `call-ws`, `master` and `hotfix/add-trigger` are branch names.

> Two of them, `allow-ownership-link` and `build-chain`, have a custom annotation -

Reviewer 2: mdash

For more information about `machete` file look at the [reference blog post](https://medium.com/virtuslab/make-your-way-through-the-git-rebase-jungle-with-git-machete-e2ed4dbacd02).

> ### Discover

Reviewer 2: I'd put Discover before Edit

Reviewer 2: Smoother intro for newcomers

Branch layout can be automatically discovered based on your git repository by `Discover Branch Layout` action.

> It detects a layout of 10 recently used branches.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It detects a layout of around 10 most recently used branches.
```
(`around` since there's a little nuance: 10 most recently used branches are taken into consideration, but at the very end the once that are merged to its parent & have no children are filtered out)

Reviewer 2: (but ofc we don't want to delve into this nuance here)

This action is proposed in Git Machete tab in case of empty or nonexistent `machete` file,
but you can also run it any time you want from IntelliJ's `Search Everywhere` (double Shift) by typing `Discover Branch Layout`.

![](docs/discover.gif)

> ### Checking out branches

Reviewer 2: Use gerund or infinitive consistently in section titles (the latter preferred)

To watch the logs of this IntelliJ instance, run `tail -f build/idea-sandbox/system/log/idea.log`.

### Generate plugin zip

To generate a plugin archive run `:buildPlugin` Gradle task (`Gradle panel` -> `Tasks` -> `intellij` -> `buildPlugin` or `./gradlew buildPlugin`).<br/>
The resulting file will be available under `build/distributions/`.

## Installing

### Install from JetBrains Marketplace

This plugin is available on [JetBrains Marketplace](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14221-git-machete). <br/>

> To install this plugin go to `File` -> `Settings` -> `Plugins`, then make sure you are on `Marketplace` tab (not `Installed`), in search box type `Git Machete` and click install.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install this plugin go to `File` -> `Settings` -> `Plugins`, then make sure you are on `Marketplace` tab (not `Installed`), in search box type `Git Machete` and click `Install`.
```

Plugin will be installed. After installation click `Restart IDE` and confirm that action in a messagebox.

### Install plugin zip

Go to `File` -> `Settings` -> `Plugins` -> `(gear icon)` -> `Install Plugin from Disk...`, select the zip and restart IDE.

> ## Logging

Reviewer 2: This part can remain in README... but more as a guideline on how to provide logs when reporting an issue; also, while you're here, consider adding ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md (or however the issue template file is now called in GitHub)

Author: About issue template: now it looks like this https://docs.github.com/en/github/building-a-strong-community/configuring-issue-templates-for-your-repository

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Check out branches</strong></summary>
<br/>

With Git Machete you can easily check out branches that have been defined in `machete` file.
Just right-click on the branch you want to check out and select `Checkout Branch`.
You can also double-click on the selected branch to check it out.
The current branch is underlined in a branch layout.

![](docs/checkout.gif)
</details>

<details>

> <summary><strong>Listing commits</strong></summary>

Reviewer 2: Nit: for consistency (verbs in section titles):
```suggestion
<summary><strong>Toggle listing commits</strong></summary>
```

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Push</strong></summary>
<br/>

After a rebase, you might want to push the rebased branch to the remote.
Right-click on the given branch and select `Push (Current) Branch` from a context menu.
Push dialog will appear with a proper push button (regular push or force push) depending on which of them is needed.

> Basically, you need force push in a case when you rebased our branch because local and remote branch diverged from each other (they have different commits), so git won't let us do a regular push.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Basically, you need force push in a case when you rebased your branch because local and remote branch diverged from each other (they have different commits), so git won't let you do a regular push.
```

> Basically, you need force push in a case when you rebased our branch because local and remote branch diverged from each other (they have different commits), so git won't let us do a regular push.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Basically, you need force push in a case when you rebased our branch and thus local and remote branch diverged from each other (they have different commits), so git won't let us do a regular push.
```

The easiest way to set this key is using `git config --add machete.slideOut.deleteLocalBranch true` command inside given repository.
If you want to set this key globally (to by used for all repositories that don't have this key set explicitly), add `--global` option to the previous command.

![](docs/slide_out_leaf_node.gif)

![](docs/slide_out_non_leaf_node.gif)

> ### Slide in branch

Reviewer 2: Hmm is it possible in GH markdown to make section collapsible (as on e.g. Wikipedia?)

Reviewer 2: Maybe this https://gist.github.com/pierrejoubert73/902cc94d79424356a8d20be2b382e1ab, TBD how to structure it so that stuff is both easily accessible & visible to newcomers, and the entire README isn't too long to scroll

Reviewer 2: Just as I'm now doing in https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete/tree/doc/readme-first-5-mins

By default, Lombok's annotation processor runs on the fly and Delomboked sources are not saved to {subproject}/build/delombok/...<br/>
To enable Delombok, set `useDelombok` Gradle project property (e.g. `./gradlew -PuseDelombok build`).

In case of spurious cache-related issues with Gradle build, try one of the following:
* `./gradlew clean` and re-run the failing `./gradlew` command with `--no-build-cache`
* remove .gradle/ directory in the project directory
* remove ~/.gradle/caches/ (or even the entire ~/.gradle/) directory

### Generate plugin zip

To generate a plugin archive run `:buildPlugin` Gradle task (`Gradle panel` -> `Tasks` -> `intellij` -> `buildPlugin` or `./gradlew buildPlugin`).<br/>
The resulting file will be available under `build/distributions/`.

> ## Issue reporting

Reviewer 2: While you're here, pls also set up issue template (posssibly only the bug template is really needed) for this repository

Author: Template added, see PR #479

> If you see any bug or just want to propose any new feature feel free to create an issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you see any bug or just would like to propose any new feature, feel free to create an issue.
```

When you report a bug please include logs from IntelliJ.<br/>
It can be very helpful for us to enable logging on debug level and then reproduce bug.
To do this, go to `Help` -> `Diagnostic Tools` -> `Debug Log Settings` and then paste the following lines:

```
binding
branchlayout
gitcore
gitmachete.backend
gitmachete.frontend.actions
gitmachete.frontend.externalsystem
gitmachete.frontend.graph
gitmachete.frontend.ui
```

> Then reproduce bug and go to `Help` -> `Show Log in Files` to open log file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then reproduce the bug and go to `Help` -> `Show Log in Files` to open log file.
```

## Development

> For more details on development the project, see the [this document](DEVELOPMENT.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more details on development of the project, see the [this document](DEVELOPMENT.md).
```

- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/toggle_listing_commits.png) **Toggle Listing Commits** - show or hide commits belonging to branches (for more details see section [Listing commits](#listing-commits))
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/open_machete_file.png) **Open Machete File** - open `machete` file in IntelliJ editor (to see what this editor can do see [Machete file editor](#machete-file-editor) section)
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/fetch_all_remotes.png) **Fetch All Remotes** - equivalent of `git fetch --all` command
- The most suitable action (each is equivalent of context menu actions) for a current branch that can be one of:

>     - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/push.png) **Push Current Branch**

Reviewer 2: Nit: maybe use light theme icons here :)

Author: So maybe the best solution is using original one (converted to png with transparency)

    - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/pull.png) **Pull Current Branch**
    - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/reset.png) **Reset Current Branch to Remote**
    - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/slide_out.png) **Slide Out Current Branch**

  Available action is selected based on a relation between current branch and its parent and remote branch.
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/slide_in.png) **Slide In Branch Below Current Branch** - shortcut of [slide in](#slide-in-branch) action for current branch

> - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/rebase.png) **Rebase Current Branch Onto Parent** - shortcut of [rebase](#rebase) action for the current branch

Reviewer 2: I think this action should also go under ` The most suitable action ... for a current branch`? (#484)

Author: So maybe the best solution is using original one (converted to png with transparency)

Reviewer 2: (@micpiotrowski)

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Slide in branch</strong></summary>
<br/>

> You can also create a new branch below selected one (also without editing `machete` file manually).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also create a new branch below the selected one (also without editing `machete` file manually).
```

In case of spurious cache-related issues with Gradle build, try one of the following:
* `./gradlew --stop` to shut down gradle daemon
* `./gradlew clean` and re-run the failing `./gradlew` command with `--no-build-cache`
* remove .gradle/ directory in the project directory
* remove ~/.gradle/caches/ (or even the entire ~/.gradle/) directory

### Generate plugin zip

To generate a plugin archive run `:buildPlugin` Gradle task (`Gradle panel` -> `Tasks` -> `intellij` -> `buildPlugin` or `./gradlew buildPlugin`).<br/>
The resulting file will be available under `build/distributions/`.

## Issue reporting

If you see any bug or just would like to propose any new feature, feel free to create an issue.
When you report a bug please include logs from IntelliJ.<br/>
It can be very helpful for us to enable logging on debug level and then reproduce bug.
To do this, go to `Help` -> `Diagnostic Tools` -> `Debug Log Settings` and then paste the following lines:

```
binding
branchlayout
gitcore
gitmachete.backend
gitmachete.frontend.actions
gitmachete.frontend.externalsystem
gitmachete.frontend.graph
gitmachete.frontend.ui
```

> Then reproduce the bug and go to `Help` -> `Show Log in Files` to open log file.

Reviewer: `the log file`?

    - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/reset.png) **Reset Current Branch to Remote**
    - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/slide_out.png) **Slide Out Current Branch**

  Available action is selected based on a relation between a current branch and its parent and remote branch.
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/slide_in.png) **Slide In Branch Below Current Branch** - shortcut of [slide in](#slide-in-branch) action for current branch
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/rebase.png) **Rebase Current Branch Onto Parent** - shortcut of [rebase](#rebase) action for the current branch
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/help.png) **Show Help Window** - show window with example branch layout and explanation what parts of this graph mean
</details>

<details>
<summary>Multi-repository support</summary>

> Git Machete supports many git repositories in one project. It can be many regular repositories or submodules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Git Machete supports many git repositories in one project, including both regular repositories and submodules.
```

</details>

<details>

> <summary><strong>Override fork point</strong></summary>

Reviewer 2: Whoops... that's the first time `fork point` is introduced, would be nice to explain the term as the very first thing in the paragraph

<br/>

If one of branch layout edges is yellow, that means the fork point of this branch cannot be unambiguously determined.

> However, Git Machete can give you a hit which of a commit is probably a fork point.

Reviewer 2: `hint`

> Show commits to see this one (see the `Listing commits` section).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Show commits to see this one (see the `Toggle listing commits` section).
```

Now you can use `Override Fork Point of Branch` action to choose the fork point of this branch.
It can be commit inferred by Git Machete (the one marked in commits list), or the one that parent branch is pointing to.

![](docs/override_forkpoint.gif)

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Other actions</strong></summary>
<br/>

On the left side bar you can find other actions (from top to bottom):

> - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/refresh.png) **Refresh Status** &mdash; refreshing (reload) branch layout (the graph displayed in main plugin window)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/refresh.png) **Refresh Status** &mdash; refresh (reload) branch layout &mdash; the graph displayed in main plugin window
```

> - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/toggle_listing_commits.png) **Toggle Listing Commits** &mdash; show or hide commits belonging to branches (for more details see section [Listing commits](#listing-commits))

Reviewer 2: Update section name/anchor

> - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/open_machete_file.png) **Open Machete File** &mdash; open `machete` file in IntelliJ editor (to see what this editor can do see [Machete file editor](#machete-file-editor) section)

Reviewer 2: Update section name/anchor

- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/fetch_all_remotes.png) **Fetch All Remotes** &mdash; equivalent of `git fetch --all` command
- The most suitable action (each is equivalent of context menu actions) for a current branch that can be one of:
    - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/push.png) **Push Current Branch**
    - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/pull.png) **Pull Current Branch**
    - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/reset.png) **Reset Current Branch to Remote**
    - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/slide_out.png) **Slide Out Current Branch**
    - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/rebase.png) **Rebase Current Branch Onto Parent**
    - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/override_forkpoint.png) **Override Fork Point of Current Branch**

  Available action is selected based on a relation between a current branch and its parent and remote branch.
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/slide_in.png) **Slide In Branch Below Current Branch** &mdash; shortcut of [slide in](#slide-in-branch) action for current branch

> - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/help.png) **Show Help Window** &mdash; show window with example branch layout and explanation what parts of this graph mean

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/help.png) **Show Help Window** &mdash; show window with a sample branch layout and explanation what parts of this graph mean
```

<summary><strong>Override fork point</strong></summary>
<br/>

> Branch fork point is the commit from which given branch was created.

Reviewer 2: Whoops... no, that's not always true :/ What if a long-existing branch has been rebased onto a parent branch that has itself been rebased a few times?...

> The commits from fork point to current branch commit are unique to this branch (this is what Git Machete displays when `toggle listing commits` is enabled).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The commits from the fork point (exclusive) to the tip of the branch (inclusive) are unique to this branch &mdash; this is what Git Machete displays when `toggle listing commits` is enabled.
```

<summary><strong>Override fork point</strong></summary>
<br/>

> According to [git documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-merge-base#Documentation/git-merge-base.txt---fork-point),
> fork point is `the point at which a branch (or any history that leads to <commit>) forked from another branch (or any reference) <ref>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similarly as defined in [git merge-base documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-merge-base#Documentation/git-merge-base.txt---fork-point),
we define **fork point** of a given branch `X` as the commit at which `X` forks from any other branch.
```

<br/>

On the left side bar you can find other actions (from top to bottom):
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/refresh.png) **Refresh Status** &mdash; refresh the graph displayed in main plugin window

> - ![](docs/left_bar_actions/toggle_listing_commits.png) **Toggle Listing Commits** &mdash; show or hide commits belonging to branches (for more details see section `Toggle listing commits`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ![](docs/left_bar_actions/toggle_listing_commits.png) **Toggle Listing Commits** &mdash; show or hide commits belonging to branches (for more details see `Toggle listing commits` section)
```
